Hello, and welcome to the final round
of this deep learning journey, part 6, AutoEncoders.
I'm super excited to get to this part because
AutoEncoders are my personal favorites.
And the reason is that there is this amazing contrast
between their simplicity and what they're capable of.
Because you're gonna see that we will solve
this recommended system problem in a rather simple way
and besides we will get excellent results.
We will implement these AutoEncoders with PyTorch
and you're gonna' see how it's going to be so easy
to change the architecture of our AutoEncoders.
This will be all very intuitive, we will implement
these AutoEncoders from scratch
but of course by using PyTorch.
And I promise you at the end of these tutorials
for the challenge,
because there's going to be a challenge as usual,
it is going to be kids stuff for you to try
different architectures than the one we're going to use now
and to try and improve your moral.
Okay so let's do it, let's implement our AutoEncoders
and let's try to beat our restricted Boltzmann machines
that we made in the previous part.
So the first we are gonna' do of course is set
the right folder as working directory.
So we'll go to file explorer and
to our Deep Learning A-Z folder.
Now we're still in volume 2 - Unsupervised Deep Learning
and so now we have to go Part 6 - Auto Encoders
here we go, and section 23 - Building an Auto Encoder.
Perfect.
And that's the right folder that
we need to set as working directory.
This folder contains the AutoEncoders Python File
which is this one here so make sure to save it
in this folder if you're making your own Python file.
And then we have these two folders,
each one corresponding to one data set of movie ratings.
The first data set is the
data set of one million movie ratings,
which are all contained in this ratings.dat file
and then we have the list of all the movies,
the list of all the users, the training set
and the test set so exactly like the previous part.
And then we have this second folder
which is actually the subset of ratings of this folder
because it contains not one million ratings
but one hundred thousand ratings.
And so as in the previous part we will train
our AutoEncoders with this data set.
I'm choosing this data set to do the training
because this one is a huge data set and
might not work on certain machines due to memory problems.
So I want to make sure everybody manages to train
the AutoEncoders and therefore
we're gonna take this data set.
Alright now let's set this folder as working directory
so we click on this tool button here
and then set console working directory.
Perfect. Alright first step done.
Now we're going to import the libraries
we will be using to implement our AutoEncoders
and actually I've listed all these libraries here
so that all the required imports are done
and so that we don't have to worry about this.
So there is numpy because of course
we will be working with arrays.
There is pandas to import the data set
and create the train set and the test set.
And then we have all the torch libraries
so for example this nn is the module of torch
to implement neural networks.
This is for the parallel computations.
This is for the optimizers.
These are the tools that we will use.
And this is for stochastic rate in the set.
So let's import them all, so I'm going to select all of them
and let's press command or control plus enter to execute.
Here we go, now all the libraries, classes and functions
are well imported and so we are ready to start.
So now what we are going to do is import the data set
and so if you followed part five on Boltzmann machines
well feel free to skip this tutorial now and go to the next
one because basically now we will importing the same
data set as in the previous part.
Okay so let's start with the first one.
The first data set we are going
to import is all our movies.
So let's do it, all our movies are in this file
movies.dat and so let's create a new variable
that will contain all our movies.
So I'm calling it movies, then equal, and then
we're gonna' use pandas of course which has
the shortcut pd then the read underscore csv function.
Here we go, and now there is gonna'
be quite some adventure because the data set
is not that simple and we will need to use
some of the arguments here to import it well.
So first what we need to do is to find the path
that contains the data set and so this
whole folder here is the working directory
but then we need to access this folder because
this is a folder that contains this movies.file
and so the first element of the path is ML-1M.
So that's what we need to specify first
so ML-1M and then slash and then we just
need to type the name of the file which is Movies.dat.
Okay perfect that's the first argument now second one.
So the second one is the separator
the default separator is a comma and that works
for csv file you know simple csv files where
the features are separated by commas
but here that's not the case because you know
we have the titles of the movies and some of them
contain commas inside the title
so we can not use commas to separate the movies
because then we could have a same movie in
two different columns and therefore the separator
is not a comma but a double colon, like this.
If you open the movies.dat file you will see
that the movies are separated by their ratings
and their other features by a double colon like this.
So that is the separator and therefore we need to add
sep = and we have to input these double colons in quotes.
Like this.
Then comma and third parameter.
The third parameter is the header because
actually the file movies.dat doesn't contain
headers, that is names of columns.
And therefore we need to specify this because
the default value of header is not none
that is the case where there is no column names
but infer and therefore we need to specify
that there is no column names and
to do this we put header = None, alright.
The next parameter is going to be engine and this
is it to make sure the data set gets imported correctly.
And we will use the Python engine, Python here in quotes
to make it efficient.
And finally we need to input a last argument
which is the encoding and we need to input
a different encoding than usual because
some of the movie titles contain special characters that
cannot be treated properly with the classic encoding UTF8.
So we're just adding this encoding argument because of
some of the special characters in the movie titles.
So in quotes we input latin-1 and quote again
and that's the end of the parenthesis.
Perfect, I think now we have everything
let's make sure it's the case so I'm going
to select this line and execute.
Perfect, that works.
So let's check it out in variable explorer
and here are all our movies, here we go.
So that's the list of all our movies in this
movie lance database, so feel free to have
a look at this we have thousands of movies
and for each of these movies we have this
first column which is the movie ID and that
is the most important information
because this is the information we will use
to make a recommended system you know
we will not be using the titles it will
be much more simple with the movie's IDs.
Okay so this is the first data set
and in fact this is just to show you the movies
we will not be using this data set to make
the training set or the test set.
It is just to show you what is going on with all the movies.
So okay, and now we're gonna' do the same for our users.
Same that's just for you to see where they are
and so we're going to create a new variable that
we are going to call users and equals.
Good news we're going to copy this line
because it is going to be almost the same,
so copy, and paste that here.
And actually we need to use the exact same
arguments here for the header, the engine and the encoding,
but then of course we need to change the path
because we are now importing our users
that are contained in users.dat and therefore
I'm replacing movies here by users and that should be all.
They use the same separator, the double colon
to separate the features and therefore that's done.
We can select this line and execute.
There we go, perfect, our users are well imported.
Here they are, users and that all the
information is about the different users.
So the first column is the user ID
the second column is the gender
the third column is the age, the fourth column
is some code that corresponds to the users job
and the last column is the zip code.
Okay, and now let's import our ratings
so the one million ratings and in fact
this is going to be exactly the same
we are going to create it a new variable
that we are going to call ratings and here
we just paste the same line and that's
the same, we are going to use
the same separator, the same header,
the same engine, the same encoding,
and therefore we only need to replace movies
by the name of the file that contains all the ratings.
This is ratings.dat, so here I am just replacing movies
by ratings, alright.
And now let's take this line and execute
here we go it's taking a little time because
there is one million ratings and
if we go to variable explorer this is our ratings.
So here that are important to understand the structure
because we are getting closer to the training set
and the test set we will make to train our AutoEncoders.
So, the first column corresponds to the users so this
one here that we see corresponds to the first user
of the data base.
So all these ones here correspond to the same user
then the second column corresponds to the movies
and the numbers that we see here are the movie IDs.
So this corresponds to our first movie,
this corresponds to our second movie,
our third movie, our fourth movie,
well these are the movie IDs that are contained
in this movies data frame so that's why we
imported this data frame it's for you to see
which movie IDs corresponds to which movie
just if you want to play or test
the recommended system in the end.
Let's open that again, okay so that's the second column
corresponding to the movies and then the third
column corresponds of course to the ratings.
So the ratings go from one to five,
one means the user didn't like the movie
and five means the user absolutely loved the movie.
So let's give two examples, this second line
here of index 2 means that user number 1 rated
the movie number 914 and gave it three stars.
And then let's give another example
if I'm scrolling down well for example
let's take this observation, 1589.
Well this corresponds to the user number 15
that rated the movie number 357 and gave it 1 star.
So this user absolutely hated this movie.
So now for example if you're curious you can have fun
and see what this 357 movie ID corresponds to.
The answer is in this movie data set.
Alright that's the third column
and the fourth column we absolutely don't care
these are just the time stamps that basically
specifies when each user rated the movie.
So that's all so we don't care and we will
remove this data afterwards when
creating the training set and the test set.
Alright perfect so that's it for this first tutorial,
the data set is now imported correctly
and so we will move on to the next step
which will be to create the training set and the test set.
So I will see you in the next tutorial
and until then enjoy Deep Learning!